doc secp256r1 (#8899)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/basics/accounts.md

In the Cosmos SDK, an _account_ designates a pair of _public key_ `PubKey` and _private key_ `PrivKey`. The `PubKey` can be derived to generate various `Addresses`, which are used to identify users (among other parties) in the application. `Addresses` are also associated with [`message`s](../building-modules/messages-and-queries.md#messages) to identify the sender of the `message`. The `PrivKey` is used to generate [digital signatures](#signatures) to prove that an `Address` associated with the `PrivKey` approved of a given `message`.

> For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). This allows to create a HD wallet - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created form of a 12 or 24-words mnemonic. This single seed allows to derive any number of `PrivKey`s using one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). This allows users to create an HD wallet - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. This single seed allows one to derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.
```

> For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). This allows users to create an HD wallet - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. This single seed allows one to derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

Author: We want to say that HD wallet is a a set of accounts created by an HD derivation mechanism from a single secret seed. I used hyphen to explain HD wallet. Do you think _with_ makes more sense here than a hyphen?

> For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). This allows users to create an HD wallet - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. This single seed allows one to derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

Reviewer 2: From... "Multi-Account Hierarchy for Deterministic Wallets" BIP-0044 https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki

> For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). This allows users to create an HD wallet - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. This single seed allows one to derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

Author: I added a link to BIP44 and updated the wording.

The Cosmos SDK supports the following digital key schemes for creating digital signatures:

- `secp256k1`, as implemented in the [SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256k1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/crypto/keys/secp256k1/secp256k1.go).
- `secp256r1`, as implemented in the [SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256r1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/crypto/keys/secp256r1/pubkey.go),
- `tm-ed25519`, as implemented in the [SDK `crypto/keys/ed25519` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/crypto/keys/ed25519/ed25519.go). This scheme is supported only for the consensus validation.

|              | Address length | Public key length | Used for transaction | Used for consensus |
|              | in bytes       |          in bytes | authentication       | (tendermint)       |
|--------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------------+--------------------|
| `secp256k1`  | 20             |                33 | yes                  | no                 |

> | `secp256k1`  | 32             |                33 | yes                  | no                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `secp256r1`  | 32             |                33 | yes                  | no                 |
```

- `AccAddress` identifies users (the sender of a `message`).
- `ValAddress` identifies validator operators.
- `ConsAddress` identifies validator nodes that are participating in consensus. Validator nodes are derived using the **`ed25519`** curve.

These types implement the `Address` interface:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/types/address.go#L104-L113

Address construction algorithm is defined in [ADR-28](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md).
Here is the standard way to obtain an account address from a `pub` public key:

```go
sdk.AccAddress(pub.Address().Bytes())
```

Of note, the `Marshal()` and `Bytes()` method both return the same raw `[]byte` form of the address. `Marshal()` is required for Protobuf compatibility.

Addresses and public keys are formatted using [Bech32](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bech32) and implemented by the `String` method. The Bech32 method is the only supported format to use when interacting with a blockchain. The Bech32 human-readable part (Bech32 prefix) is used to denote an address type. Example:

> +++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/types/address.go#L235-L249

Reviewer 3: here too

                                 +-------------------+
```

In the Cosmos SDK, keys are stored and managed via an object called a [`Keyring`](#keyring).

> ## Keys, accounts, addresses and signatures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Keys, accounts, addresses, and signatures
```

Author: are you sure we should add a comma before `and`?

Reviewer: yup

Reviewer: so says Grammarly. Our tech writer should leave a review shortly though

Author: Thanks @barriebyron . It make sense. Interestingly enough, it seams that this rule applies only when we list at least 3 items: https://www.grammarly.com/blog/comma-before-and/

> The principal way of authenticating a user is done through a [digital signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature). User is signing transactions using his/her private key. Signature verification is done with the associated public key. For the on-chain signature verification purpose we store public key in an `Account` object (alongside other data required for a proper transaction validation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The principal way of authenticating a user is done through [digital signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature). Users signs transactions using their own private key. Signature verification is done with the associated public key. For on-chain signature verification purposes, we store the public key in an `Account` object (alongside other data required for a proper transaction validation).
```

> Currently, the SDK supports the following digital key schemes for creating digital signatures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the Cosmos SDK supports the following digital key schemes for creating digital signatures:
```

- `secp256k1`, as implemented in the [SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256k1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/crypto/keys/secp256k1/secp256k1.go).

> - `secp256r1`, as implemented in the [SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256r1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/crypto/keys/secp256r1/pubkey.go),

Author: I use a link to master, to allow an easy find when we will tag a new release.

### Public Keys

Public keys in Cosmos SDK are defined by `crypto/PubKey` interface. Since they are saved in a store, it extends the `proto.Message` interface:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/crypto/types/types.go#L8-L17

For `secp256k1` and `secp256r1` serialization, a compressed format is used. The first byte is a `0x02` byte if the `y`-coordinate is the lexicographically largest of the two associated with the `x`-coordinate. Otherwise the first byte is a `0x03`. This prefix is followed with the `x`-coordinate.

Similarly to `Address`, bech32 is used to format `PubKey` and for all communication with a blockchain:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.40.0-rc3/types/address.go#L579-L729

## Keyring

A `Keyring` is an object that stores and manages accounts. In the Cosmos SDK, a `Keyring` implementation follows the `Keyring` interface:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L51-L92

The default implementation of `Keyring` comes from the third-party [`99designs/keyring`](https://github.com/99designs/keyring) library.

A few notes on the `Keyring` methods:

> - `Sign(uid string, payload []byte) ([]byte, sdkcrypto.PubKey, error)` strictly deals with the signature of the `payload` bytes. Some preliminary work should be done beforehand to prepare and encode the transaction into a canonical `[]byte` form. Protobuf being not deterministic, it has been decided in [ADR-020](../architecture/adr-020-protobuf-transaction-encoding.md) that the canonical `payload` to sign is the `SignDoc` struct, deterministically encoded using [ADR-027](adr-027-deterministic-protobuf-serialization.md). Note that signature verification is not implemented in the SDK by default, it is deferred to the [`anteHandler`](../core/baseapp.md#antehandler).

Reviewer 4: instead of "should" can we tell them what to do? In this case, if we mean "before doing x, you must prepare "

  +++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.42.1/proto/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/tx.proto#L47-L64

> - `NewAccount(uid, mnemonic, bip39Passwd, hdPath string, algo SignatureAlgo) (Info, error)` creates a new account based on the [`bip44 path`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) and persists it on disk (note that the `PrivKey` is [encrypted with a passphrase before being persisted](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.40.0-rc3/crypto/armor.go), it is **never stored unencrypted**). In the context of this method, the `account` and `address` parameters refer to the segment of the BIP44 derivation path (e.g. `0`, `1`, `2`, ...) used to derive the `PrivKey` and `PubKey` from the mnemonic (note that given the same mnemonic and `account`, the same `PrivKey` will be generated, and given the same `account` and `address`, the same `PubKey` and `Address` will be generated). Finally, note that the `NewAccount` method derives keys and addresses using the algorithm specified in the last argument `--algo`. The following keys are supported by the keyring:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `NewAccount(uid, mnemonic, bip39Passwd, hdPath string, algo SignatureAlgo) (Info, error)` creates a new account based on the [`bip44 path`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) and persists it on disk. The `PrivKey` is **never stored unencrypted**, instead it is [encrypted with a passphrase before being persisted](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.40.0-rc3/crypto/armor.go). In the context of this method, the `account` and `address` parameters refer to the segment of the BIP44 derivation path (for example, `0`, `1`, `2`, ...) that is used to derive the `PrivKey` and `PubKey` from the mnemonic. Using the same mnemonic and `account`, the same `PrivKey` is generated and given the same `account` and `address`, so the same `PubKey` and `Address` are generated. Finally, the `NewAccount` method derives keys and addresses using the algorithm specified in the last argument `--algo`. The following keys are supported by the keyring:
```

Reviewer 4: I _think_ my suggestions make sense, let me know if I introduced errors, I am keen to understand. @robert-zaremba I am learning so much here!

Reviewer 4: even though we want to use future tense, the best tense is present, again we can turn to the [Google develop documentation style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/tense)

Author: In fact the I will need to reword it.  We shouldn't use _account_ in derivation mechanism.

- `secp256k1`
- `ed25519`

> - `ExportPrivKeyArmor(uid, encryptPassphrase string) (armor string, err error)` exports a private key in ASCII-armored encrypted format, using the given passphrase. You can then either import it again into the keyring using the `ImportPrivKey(uid, armor, passphrase string)` function, or decrypt it into a raw private key using the `UnarmorDecryptPrivKey(armorStr string, passphrase string)` function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `ExportPrivKeyArmor(uid, encryptPassphrase string) (armor string, err error)` exports a private key in ASCII-armored encrypted format using the given passphrase. You can then either import the private key again into the keyring using the `ImportPrivKey(uid, armor, passphrase string)` function or decrypt it into a raw private key using the `UnarmorDecryptPrivKey(armorStr string, passphrase string)` function.
```
